---
title: Research round 3
description: In person concept testing attidudes towards a GOV.UK app. Including usability testing with a figma protoype on a real device and a card sorting excersise to understand user reactions towards general notifications. 
date: 2023-10-31
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: "Home"
      src: /round-3/06-home.png
    - text: "Wallet"
      src: /round-3/03-wallet.png
    - text: "Notifications"
      src: /round-3/02-notifications.png
    - text: "Profile"
      src: /round-3/04-profile.png
    - text: "Lockscreen notifications"
      src: /round-3/05-lock.png
    - text: "Message"
      src: /round-3/01-message.png
---
## Research objectives

1. Explore and understand people’s behaviours and attitudes towards a gov.uk app
2. Investigate the needs of people who interact with the government by using an app
3. Inform next rounds of research
4. Feed into the app proposition by exploring app concepts and opportunities

## What we did
- 1 Round of UR 
- 10 participants
- Usability testing: Onboarding, navigation, home page, profile
- Closed card sorting: Global push notifications

## Summary of insights

### Onboarding

Participants expected to find out about the app from marketing campaigns across multiple channels. Participants didn’t understand what notifications about “important events” would be so we should explore design iterations for how we explain the push notifications to users. 

### Home page

The home page design met the expectations of some participants. There were a number of suggested of iterations to this page from participants. We need to do more design exploration on the recently used services list as it was unclear how this should function.

### Profile

The profile broadly met user expectations and some participants felt comfortable having a GOV.UK profile. Most participants expected to enter the data in the profile as part of sign up or registration.

### Navigation

Participants were able to navigate through the different sections of the app independently and had strong mental models of what would be in each section of the app. We need to explore navigating to and from push notifications more in future design iterations


### Global Push Notifications 

Participants were selective about the notifications they used and expected to be able to tailor the global notifications to their circumstances. Participants worried about missing something important so would avoid turning the notifications off. This presents a risk we need to explore further.


## What we showed users

We ran the prototypes on test devices and handed them to users in the session. We used a Samsung Galaxy A32 for Android users and an iPhone 11 for iOS users.

[iOS prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/r9wcC8uh5LEaBhSDqv8EBn/GOV.UK-App---R3-iOS?type=design&node-id=1-7865&t=RKx9yzyuUZcabUwF-0&scaling=min-zoom&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=1%3A7865&show-proto-sidebar=1)

[Android prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/09a4TU8ZszV8lgZPyKFDTC/GOV.UK-App---R3-Android?type=design&node-id=6-17003&t=g7z7tlXVDXukKT1X-0&scaling=scale-down&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=6%3A17003&show-proto-sidebar=1)
