---
title: Research round 4
description: In person evaluative research with a focus on user reactions to expectation management content, an iterated home page, and interaction with the find a service page.

date: 2023-12-18
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: "Onboarding"
      src: /round-4/01-onboarding.png
    - text: "Home"
      src: /round-4/02-home.png
    - text: "Popular information"
      src: /round-4/03-information.png
    - text: "Services"
      src: /round-4/04-services.png
    - text: "Service start page"
      src: /round-4/05-start.png
    - text: "Notifications"
      src: /round-4/06-notitications.png
    - text: "Message"
      src: /round-4/07-message.png
---
## Research objectives

1. Explore and understand people’s behaviours and attitudes towards a gov.uk app
2. Understand the usability of current designs for the onboarding and the service list 
3. Understand how users independently through the app
4. Inform design iterations to these sections of the app and contribute to MVP build tickets

## What we did
- 1 Round of UR 
- 9 participants
- Usability testing: Managing expectations, Home page, Find a service

## Summary of insights

### Onboarding

All users within this sample understood the content and purpose of the onboarding screens. This was familiar from other apps. We should consider exploring other patterns to understand if users would skip through these less - the comparator analysis highlighted several other ways apps are handling this.


### Home page

The home page design met the expectations of some participants. There were a number of suggested of iterations to this page from participants. We need to do more design exploration on the recently used services list as it was unclear how this should function.

### Managing expectations

Overall, all participants understood the message that not all services would be available in the app yet. 
Most participants were initially accepting of this message and understood that new services would be added over time but this changed as they explored the app. Web handovers caused particular friction for participants.

### Navigation

All users were observed being able to independently navigate through the app. Participants did not all have strong expectations or understanding of the different sections of the app, even after coming through the onboarding screens - profile particularly did not meet expectations for this sample.

### Home page

All of the participants understood that the “Popular information” content was from the website and was "popular" based on either the website or the app analytics. This section of the home page split expectations of participants with some finding it useful and others feeling it didn’t meet their expected use of the app. Participants expected to be able to use the “Popular information” content to complete service based tasks.

### Find a service page 

The majority of participants scrolled through the list of services to find what they needed. Search was unnoticed by some of the sample, this could be related to the prototype fidelity. The outcome of the search result when a service isn't in the app that directs users to the GOV.UK website highlighted the friction with the web handovers. 

## Caveats / Limitations

1. This presentation consists of findings based on 9 participants, so not representative on it’s own 
2. We conducted this research face to face which introduces a bias where participants provide positive feedback that doesn’t accurately reflect their views or experiences - this is referred to throughout this report

## What we showed users

We ran the prototypes on test devices and handed them to users in the session. We used a Samsung Galaxy A32 for Android users and an iPhone 11 for iOS users.

[iOS prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/tQvUOB1viWpLohrn4wU2Sf/GOV.UK-App---R4-iOS?type=design&node-id=98-4223&t=yptQPvh0okSM1gSJ-0&scaling=min-zoom&page-id=0%3A1)

[Android prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/RzYbQDl1MeyTVt8X5f6WfF/GOV.UK-App---R4-Android?type=design&node-id=410-4162&t=cWO6WXfzYljF4dIE-0&scaling=scale-down&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=410%3A4267&show-proto-sidebar=1)
