---
title: Lean user research 1
description: Remote, task-based research with participants aged 16-24.

date: 2024-03-21
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: "Home"
      src: /LUR-1/01-home.png
    - text: "Your Details"
      src: /LUR-1/02-your-details.png
    - text: "Services"
      src: /LUR-1/03-services.png
    - text: "Services (happy search)"
      src: /LUR-1/04-services-happy-search.png
    - text: "Services (unhappy search)"
      src: /LUR-1/05-services-unhappy-search.png
---
## What is Lean UR?

Lean user research takes a **design >> experiment >> learn** approach to gathering insight, relying on:
- unmoderated research
- quantitative methods
- minimum documentation
- continuous learning
- task performance

This approach generates high-level insights quickly. Each round of lean research takes place within a two week sprint.

## Hypotheses and results

1. Participants will be able to demonstrate their understanding of the app by accurately describing its purpose and scope when presented with the app home screen. **YES**
2. Participants will be able to complete key tasks  using the app prototype by tapping on the fastest pathway to task completion, without assistance, hesitation or taking an incorrect pathway.  **PARTIAL**
3. Participants will share positive first impressions of the app prototype by rating it VG/SG (very good/somewhat good). **YES**
4. GOV.UK users in the 16-24 age bracket would prefer to use an app rather than the website (even if it has less functionality and content available). **YES**

## What we did

- 10 x 30 minute remote research sessions:
    - Naturalistic browsing (orientation, understanding and discoverability)
    - Service and app tasks (findability and completion)
    - Reflections (understanding and evaluation)
    - All participants aged 16 - 24
    - All participants iOS users

### What we showed users

We sent participants links to open Figma prototypes in Chrome on their own devices. We asked them to share their screen so we could see how they interacted with the app.

[iOS prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/iMyXbcvmrBbmYJ3H6KCKwo/GOV.UK-App---Lean-UR-prototype-(iOS)?type=design&node-id=197-2461&t=waoF2K6gOT6vzjp8-0&scaling=scale-down&page-id=1%3A2&starting-point-node-id=197%3A2461&show-proto-sidebar=1)

### Tasks

1. What is the purpose of the app
2. How would you use this app to apply for a student loan? (Happy search path)
3. How would you use this app to renew your passport? (Unhappy search path)
4. How would you use this app to Login to Universal Credit (Testing whether a login makes sense under 'Services')
5. Find a service previously used in the app
6. Change One Login email / password
7. Describe the app to a friend

## Summary of insights

### Task completion

- All participants were able to open and log into app, apply for a Student Loan and see previously used services.
- Some partipants were able to find how they would change their email address and their password.
- Participants struggled to find how they would renew their passport (unhappy search path), login to Universal Credit (listed under 'Services') and Sign out.

### App rating

- Half of the articipants rated the app Somewhat Good and the other half rated it Very Good.

## Recommendations

1. Explore changes to search design that would make it more prominent
2. Decide and design the functionality or split between “Your one login details” vs “Settings” to help users know where to find the functionality they need
3. Collaborate with One Login to consider service journeys around wallet & services, particularly around renewal or reapplication
4. Home page iterations - we could test this design and a variant 