---
title: Lean user research 2
description: Remote, task-based research with participants aged 35-54 and who have frequent interactions with government.

date: 2024-04-05
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: "Home"
      src: /LUR-2/01-home.png
    - text: "Services"
      src: /LUR-2/02-services.png
    - text: "Services (happy search)"
      src: /LUR-2/03-services-happy-search.png
    - text: "Services (unhappy search)"
      src: /LUR-2/04-services-unhappy-search.png
    - text: "Profile"
      src: /LUR-2/05-profile.png
---
## Hypotheses and results

1. Participants will be able to demonstrate their understanding of the app by accurately describing its purpose and scope when presented with the app home screen. **YES**
2. Participants will be able to complete key tasks  using the app prototype by tapping on the fastest pathway to task completion, without assistance, hesitation or taking an incorrect pathway.  **PARTIAL**
3. Participants will share positive first impressions of the app prototype by rating it VG/SG (very good/somewhat good). **YES**
4. Frequent GOV.UK users in the 35 - 54 age bracket would be comfortable using an app rather than the website (even if it has less functionality and content available). **PARTIAL**

## What we did

- 6 x 30 minute remote research sessions:
    - Naturalistic browsing (orientation, understanding and discoverability)
    - Service and app tasks (findability and completion)
    - Reflections (understanding and evaluation)
    - All participants aged 34 - 54
    - 2 participants used Android, 4 used iOS

### What we showed users

We sent participants links to open Figma prototypes in Chrome on their own devices. We asked them to share their screen so we could see how they interacted with the app.

[iOS prototype](https://www.figma.com/proto/iMyXbcvmrBbmYJ3H6KCKwo/GOV.UK-App---Lean-UR-prototype-(iOS)?page-id=855%3A8441&type=design&node-id=858-16639&viewport=1128%2C424%2C0.06&t=8D6QQdcmAAzLOAgT-1&scaling=min-zoom&starting-point-node-id=858%3A16639&mode=design)

### Tasks

1. What is the purpose of the app
2. How would you use this app to log in to Universal Credit? (Happy search path)
3. How would you use this app to renew your passport? (Unhappy search path)
5. Find a service previously used in the app
6. Change One Login email / password
7. Describe the app to a friend

## Summary of insights

### Task completion

- All participants were able to open and log into app, see previously used services and find where to change their email and password.
- Some partipants were able to find how they would sign out of the app.
- Participants struggled to find how they would login to Universal Credit (listed under 'Services') and renew their passport (unhappy search path).

### App rating

- Half of the articipants rated the app Somewhat Good and the other half rated it Very Good.

## Recommendations

1. Explore making services more prominent to reduce cognitive burden and need to search through the app for tasks
2. Explore changes to search design that would make it more prominent
3. Home page iterations - we could test this design and a variant